---
layout: post
title: openFrameworks setup
date: 2019-03-06
categories:
---

### Setting up openFrameworks
- Install Xcode
    - You should all have Xcode installed by now.  If not, download it from the [Apple App Store](https://itunes.apple.com/ca/app/xcode/id497799835?mt=12){: target= '_ blank'}. If you need another version of Xcode that is not available on the app store, email me.
    - Open Xcode and make sure it is installed on your computer
    - Quit the app

- Next, install Xcode command line tools.
    - Open up Terminal (you can find it at Applications/Utilities/Terminal.app or by going up to Spotlight and searching for Terminal ).
    - In the Terminal window you will see a dollar sign `$` and a blinking cursor. This is your prompt. After the `$`, type:
    ```bash
    xcode-select --install
    ```
    ( feel free to copy and paste the above into Terminal )
    - Hit Enter
    - This should prompt you to install the command line tools. Select "Install" to continue
    - If Terminal gives you an error, somthing like:
    ```
    xcode-select: error: command line tools are already installed, use "Software Update" to install updates
    ```
    or an error about command line tools being unavailable, don't worry.  The command line tools are already installed and you should be all set.
- Install openFrameworks
    - Go to the [openFrameworks download page](https://openframeworks.cc/download/){: target= '_ blank'}
    - Scroll all the way to the bottom of the page.  WE will be installing the 'nightly build'.
    - Find the download that cooresponds to your platform. I believe we are all on MacOS. That should be the second .zip file down in the nightly builds list.
    - Unzip and put in a good place.
    - for more information about your download, see the [official setup guide](https://openframeworks.cc/setup/xcode/){: target= '_ blank'}
- Run an example
    - Inside your openFrameworks osx-release, you will find a folder called `examples`, sorted by topic.
        - Good ones to try:
            - 3d/pointCloudExample
            - 3d/3DPrimitivesExample
            - sound/soundPlayerExample
            - sound/soundPlayerFFTExample
            - video/videoGrabberExample
        - Please try at least the first two and the last one.
- Any questions, get in touch!
