---
layout: page
title: 00a
due: 2019-01-31
---

### Your first assignment!
__DUE__ {{ page.due }}

Make sure to read this entire page.

Also, check out [this post](https://ajbajb.github.io/ARTTECH3135-spring2019/tutorials/00_variables.html) about variables and helpful tips for your assignment.
___

# Drawing!
- Try to render at least two (2) instruction pieces as best you can.  You can be interpretive.  Each line of instruction will most likely mean multiple lines of code.  Think of each instruction as _pseudocode_- an informal description of your code statements, or a series of human-readable statements that mimic code intentions and logic structure.

### Number 1
- With color number 1, randomly place 10 dots on the page.
- With color number 1, connect 2 dots to create a circle, repeat until dots are connected.
- with color number 2, make 15 more dots.
- With color number 2, connect 2 dots to make a triangle continue until all dots are connected.
- with color number 3 and 4, fill intersecting sections.

### Number 2
- Take turns drawing a continuous line of any length or shape under the condition that only alike colors may overlap (red's touch other red's, blue's touch other blues, etc)
- Drawing ends when there is no more useable space

### Number 3
- 1.
    - Bottom right corner
    - Make a point
    - Draw rectangle
    - Draw Intersecting triangle rectangle
- 2. At Point
    - Repeat same actions on opposing corners
- Repeat (1) & (2) on final corner
- connect

### Number 4
- Grab 1 handful of colors. These are the only colors you may use.
- You may draw triangles or squares. A mix is acceptable too.
- Only 2 points of either shape may touch another shape.
- If you make an enclosed shape, color it in with a single color that is different from the lines surrounding it.
- You may only color in an enclosed shape with the same color once. If you do this with all your colors, your piece is done.

### Number 5
- Fold this paper in half
- fold into triangle
- repeat until paper can't fold
- color inside shapes
- unfold into sculpture


- Take a look at:

``` javascript
__Some Simple P5 functions__

`createCanvas( w, h )`

`background( r, g, b )`

`line( x1, y1, x2, y2 )`

`rect( x1, y1, w, h )`

`ellipse( x1, y1, w, h )`

`triangle(x1, y1, x2, y2, x3, y3)`

`stroke( r, g, b )`

`strokeWeight( weight )`

`fill()`

`noFill()`

// these get put inside of other functions above, as replacements for the letters

`random( max )`

`second()`

`frameCount()`

+.
-,
*.
/,
%
=
===

```

# Reading!
- [What is Code?](https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2015-paul-ford-what-is-code/) - This is a long piece, but fun. Feel free to skim through it.
- [Computer Art History](http://www.vam.ac.uk/content/articles/a/computer-art-history/) Great short overview of some great early computer art.
